Errata ID: 75

Status: Rejected
Type: Technical

Reported By: Alfred Hoenes
Date Reported: 2006-06-23
Rejected by: Jim Sermersheim
Date Rejected: 2006-07-03
 

(2)  Typo

Section 2, on page 4, contains the paragraph:
                                        v
|  The term "SASL layer" refers to Simply Authentication and Security
   Layer (SASL) services used in providing security services, as well as
   associations established by these services.

It should say:
                                        v
|  The term "SASL layer" refers to Simple Authentication and Security
   Layer (SASL) services used in providing security services, as well as
   associations established by these services.


(3)  Misrepresented relationship between ISO 10646 and Unicode

Section 4.1.2 unfortunately has not corrected a misconception
initially spelled out in RFC 2251.

The first paragraph of Section 4.1.2, on page 7, says:

   The LDAPString is a notational convenience to indicate that, although
   strings of LDAPString type encode as ASN.1 OCTET STRING types, the
|  [ISO10646] character set (a superset of [Unicode]) is used, encoded
   following the UTF-8 [RFC3629] algorithm.  [...]

The (..) enclosed note on the relationship of ISO 10646 and Unicode
is *not* appropriate, as far as I know:

Unicode covers exactly the same character repertoire as ISO 10646,
but it *adds* a lot of *semantics* to ISO 10646.
The character repertoire synchronization between ISO 10646 and
Unicode is said to hold since 1993, and it is promised for all
future updates.
(Details can be found in Section 1.4 and Appendix C of
The Unicode Standard (book and online version), verbatim
identical in the Unicode 3.0 and Unicode 4.0 versions.)

In particular, this congruence holds for Unicode 3.2.0
(and the coordinated edition of ISO 10646) that has been
made the invariable base for the new LDAP specs.

Therefore, the above sentence should perhaps better be
corrected to say:

   The LDAPString is a notational convenience to indicate that, although
   strings of LDAPString type encode as ASN.1 OCTET STRING types, the
|  [ISO10646] character set (as detailed in [Unicode]) is used, encoded
   following the UTF-8 [RFC3629] algorithm.  [...]

(or similar).


(4)  Typo (word omission)

The 3rd paragraph of Section 4.2.2, on page 18, says:

   If the client receives a BindResponse where the resultCode is set to
   protocolError, it is to assume that the server does not support this
|  version of LDAP.  While the client may be able proceed with another
   version of this protocol (which may or may not require closing and
   re-establishing the transport connection), how to proceed with
   another version of this protocol is beyond the scope of this
   document.  Clients that are unable or unwilling to proceed SHOULD
   terminate the LDAP session.

It should say:
                                                 vvvv
|            [...].  While the client may be able to proceed with
   another version of this protocol (which may or may not require
   closing and re-establishing the transport connection), how to proceed
   with another version of this protocol is beyond the scope of this
   document.  [...]


Items (2)..(4) above might be considered for an Errata Note
to be posted to the RFC Editor's "RFC Errata" web pages.
I propose that you submit an Author's Errata Note, based on the
material presented above, and/or choosing alternate text for (3).
Notes:

In any case, these items should be noted for future reference,
whenever once another revision of these RFCs is to be produced,
e.g., for advancement on the Standards Track.

[note: (1) contained general comments and has been removed.]

Author saving on file for possible revision.

from pending